---
title: "2024-01-12"
date created: 2024-01-12
date modified: 2024-01-22
---

# 2024-01-12

← [[2024-01-11]] | [[2024-01-13]] →

What does it mean to know? What does it mean to know something true? I am uncertain. However, I can identify when something is untrue or at least incomplete.

We cannot know how our pre-Christian ancestors worshiped. That information is gone forever. We cannot know what was once taught two thousand years ago. The game of telephone has grown too long. All we have is a very long line of interpretation. The drift from communicated truth begins immediately. It starts when the speaker transforms thought into words and continues as the listener transforms words back to thought. How long, then, is the transmission to us? How much fidelity can it have?

There is a universal truth available to each of us. Unsurprisingly, there are many different truths out there. Our understanding of the truth is based on our unique and personal experiences. As long as we remain individuals, we will only have a limited perspective on the truth. By sharing our experiences with others, we can come closer to discovering the truth through communication and community.

---

Doctrinal truth: drop what is proven false  

Community wisdom: One effective way of learning is to rely on the expertise and counsel of others, particularly those who belong to a community you admire and respect. Nonetheless, it's essential to remember that their advice may only sometimes apply to your situation. Therefore, it's crucial to keep an open mind and be receptive to the community's insights while acknowledging that your personal experiences may sometimes diverge from theirs. Ultimately, it's your responsibility to determine what approach works best for you, but seeking guidance from others often serves as an advantageous starting point.

---

Ceremony, ceremonial magic

Mastery visa vi self, others

Learning requires breaking down a complex concept into smaller, more manageable pieces. Removing unnecessary layers can uncover the fundamental essence of the idea. One must then reassemble the pieces and fully comprehend the concept.

---

## Goddess Prayers

Mother of all things, watch over me tonight,  
Hold me in your arms until the morning light.

Blessed be the mother goddess by all her many names.  
May she bless my family and friends.  
May she bless the animals of the world,  
and all people everywhere.

Diana, goddess of the moon,  
Shining in the sky above,  
Bathe me in your magical light,  
And protect me with your love.  

## God Prayers

The horned god runs in the night,  
And hunts among the stars,  
May he watch over and keep us safe,  
No matter where we are.

Lord of night, welcome me as I sleep.  
Guide me in the darkness,  
and protect me as I dream.  

## Goodnight Earth

The earth is big and fat and round,  
I love the sky, the sea, and the ground,  
I love the birds and dogs and sheep,  
and all the animals that fall asleep,  
I love the flowers and rocks and trees,  
I love the earth, and it loves me.  

## Fantasy Bedtime Prayer for Kids  
Now I lay down in my bed,  
And pull the covers up to my head.  
I'll dream of dragons and fairies bright,  
And pixies and wizards and elves tonight.  
I'll dream of some magical place and  
wake up in the morning with a smile on my face.  

## A Psalm for Gaia

The Earth is my mother, I shall not want.  
She nurtures me in green pastures;  
she freshens me with flowing waters.  
She restores my body and awakens my soul.  
Although I walk in the shadow  
of changing seasons and passing time,  
I will not fear death,  
for the essence of life is within me,  
the peace and beauty of Earth comfort me.  
She teaches me to harvest her abundant gifts,  
she fills my heart with compassion,  
I drink from the cup of simple pleasures.  
As I look to the skies with wonder  
at the immensity of the universe,  
I know I am blessed beyond measure  
to live all the days of my life  
in the bountiful house of Gaia.
